The World-wide Web (WWW) - Acquiring Remote Electronic InformationJoseph F. Buchanan - 581-8814 ;  joseph.buchanan (at) utah.edu ;  http://www.cc.utah.edu/~josephThe purpose of the World-wide Web (WWW) - to share information for educational, recreational, political, commercial, etc. purposes.The information can take the form of:- pure (ASCII) text- formatted text: HTML, "rich" (RTF), viewer (e.g. Adobeª Acrobat), etc.- graphics: GIF, JPEG, PICT, etc.- combination text and graphics (usually HTML)- sounds: AIFF, WAV, etc.- video (motion): MPEG, Quicktime, etc.- software programs and data- compressed information: zip, stuffit, etc.- collaborativeThe vehicle for acquiring this information is a software program usually called a "browser". At the very minimum, a WWW browser must support and read pure text and HTML documents. Most WWW browsers also directly read certain kinds of graphics as well. Browsers usually have a way to interact with other software programs to read and display other kinds of documents not supported by the browser. These other programs are called Helper Applications. They can usually be found on the Internet and copied to your computer (downloaded) over the network.Some browsers: Netscape, Mosaic, MacWeb, Lynx, Internet Explorer (Microsoft)Some helper applications: JPeg Viewer, LView, Stuffit Expander, GZip, many more...[Open a browser - see a WWW (Web) page]Information is provided by a Server. It is acquired by a Client (the browser on your computer).The connecting point bringing the information file from the server to the client is the Location or URL (Uniform Resource Locator).[ show location - look in the window]The anatomy of a URL:type://host/directory[/directory...]/filename.extensionThe host is in the form: computer.site.organization.typeThe computer is the name of a computer that provides the services, the site is a place within the organization (and is optional). The organization name is critical. The type is a three letter code, usually of these: .edu-education, .com-commercial, .net-network provider, .gov- government, .mil-military, .org-other organization.examples:http://www.cc.utah.edu/tutorials.htmlwww.cc.utah.edu/~joseph/my_bookmarks.html  (http:// is assumed)ftp://ftp.cc.utah.edu/pub/mirrors/news://news.cc.utah.edu/sci.astromailto:president@whitehouse.govHttp is for HyperText Transfer Protocol and is the most common type on the Web. Gopher is an older protocol that groups and links documents together. Telnet is for establishing a computer session with a host computer. It usually requires a login. Ftp is File Transfer Protocol and is usually used for downloading files. News is for discussion groups. You can read articles and notes sent my others and respond to them for all to read. Mailto is a method for sending electronic mail to others.Http pages (Web pages) use HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) which contains text as well as references, or links, or anchors to other locations. Links can also be made to graphics files that are embedded in the web pages themselves. The browser usually underlines and colors the anchors so you can tell where there is a link to another web page. As you go from page to page, you can save references to the interesting ones by saving the URLs as bookmarks.The organization of information provided by hosts (servers) depends entirely on the whim of the provider and may or may not be well organized and obvious. Also remember that some servers get very busy, are very slow or may even be turned off at times. That and network difficulties and slowdowns can cause some web pages to work at some times and not at others.Saving or downloading information filesYou can save a web page using the Save As... option from the File menu (or click on the Save icon). You can also usually just keep the mouse button down when you click on an anchor. Generally you will want to save as text for HTML pages, or else you will see the ugly HTML code in your file when it is saved as "Source". If you wish to save a graphic file, you are probably best advised to save it as "Source". In newer Macintosh systems, you can drag the picture to the desktop and it will automatically be saved as a file, readable by JPEG Viewer or Netscape.Tips on finding useful information- Go to a known source of good information (e.g. a University) and look for  a bookmarks list or references list.- Use an internet search service (no cost or obligation) such as Yahoo or AltaVista.- Read newsgroups related to your interests and look for URLs in the messages- Surf. Look at someone's web (home) page and see where it takes you. Look up Yahoo's "What's Cool", etc. - Try a company name (e.g. www.sony.com). Get one from the newspaper or TV.