Historical Sketch of My Life.  John Johnson Davies(Corrected somewhat for spelling, punctuation and grammar - transcribed by Joseph F. Buchanan, joseph@cc.utah.edu)I am a verry Poor Spellerand also verry poor writerI know but little about gramerthen please to Excuse all my blundersI was born on the 28th of December 1831, in the city of Carmarthen, Carmarthen Shire, South Wales. My father's name was John and my mother's maiden name was Sarah Lewis. My father was born in the year of 1797. He died in the month of December 1839. My mother was born in the year of 1798. She died in the month of November 1856. They were buried in Carmarthen, South Wales. My parents had ten children. My father was a stone cutter by trade, and by lifting too hard, and inhaling the dust of the stone, he bled to death. My sister Sarah Jane died a few days before father died. My mother was now left with four children to provide for in that country. This was a gloomy time for mother. The names of the children that were left with mother were: David, Phillip, John and Louis. When I was nine years old, I had to work to help Mother to get the comforts of life. I worked in a weaver shop quilting for the weavers and I learned that trade.After I served my apprenticeship, I thought I would take a trip from home to see the towns and cities in other parts of the country. It was in the month of January 1850 that I started from home, on foot, because there was no railroad in that part of the country at that time. The first place I came to on my journey was the city of Llanellhe (Llanelli). This was twenty miles from home. I felt a little homesick here because I did not get work here. I stayed with my aunt a few days in this city. I felt quite lonesome here. Why? Because I was among strangers and very young and had but little experience in the world. The next place I came to was Caslocher (Loughor?). I was lucky this time. I got work with a man named David Thomas. I worked for him three months and made good wages. I went to meeting with him on Sunday. He was the leader of the choir of the Baptist Church. He introduced me to the singers and I joined them in their singing. I made many friends in this place. I left this place feeling good because I had some money now to go on with.I started again in a rain storm. I traveled a few miles and got to Swanze (Swansea) city, Glanmorgan Shire. This is a great sea port. I did not get work in this place and now I began to be homesick again. I met a friend in this place. He introduced me to a gentleman by the name of William Jones. I asked him if he could give me a job of work. He asked me if I served my apprenticeship. I said "Yes, sir. Here's my diploma". After he read it he said, "Yes, I will give you a job because you have learned the trade by a good tradesman." In a short time after that I was traveling towards his home. This was Saturday. His home was twenty miles from Swanze (Swansea) on the sea shore. The next day was Sunday. He took me to meeting, he belonging to the Presbyterian Church. The next day I started work. He watched me very close, but he soon found out that I understood my business. He also introduced me to the choir of his church and I took part with them. I did well in this place. Now I was getting home sick. I bought a suit of clothes and started for home. I got home on the 21st of December, 1850. I can tell you that I felt like the poet says, "there's no place like home," and that is true.When I got home, my old friends came to see me and we had a good chat together and also singing. That evening I went to see the girl I kept company with before I left home. She welcomed me home and truly I felt at home in her company. Her name was Mariah. I started to work again for a man by the name of David Edwards. The loom that I got to work in was next to the door and I caught a very bad cold and I was taken very sick with the chills and fever. I was sick for a long time. I had a chill every day for many days, then one every other day, yes, for three months. Then they quit and in a few days I felt middling well. Then mother told me to go to Llanstuffan (Llanstephan), a village by the sea shore, for to regain my strength. I went to this place in a boat down the river fifteen miles. I enjoyed myself quite well a while and got healthy and strong. I was here for two weeks but to my sorrow, I was taken sick again. I started out one day from the village and went as far as the old Castles that were built by the Welsh people hundreds of years ago. When I got there, I sat on a log. This castle was built on a high cliff close to the sea shore and while looking at the tide a-coming in and the ships out on the sea. I felt a queer feeling come over me and I said, "Is it possible that I am going to have the chills again?" I did not stop there, but a few minutes before I was on the way to the village, a mile away, I was getting sicker all the time. When I got to the village, I took a drink of brandy, then I felt a little better. Next morning I had a heavy chill. I paid for my board and started back home with the evening tide. I got home on the 24th of June 1851. When I got in the house, my mother looked at me and said, "What is the matter, John?" "I am sick with the chills again". She said, "never mind, you will get over it." She did all in her power to help me. I was again sick until the middle of September. After I got over the chills this time, my brothers told me to go to school, that they would pay for the school bill. I was in school one quarter and this is all the schooling that "done me enny good to me in my days" [his words].In the month of August 1851, the father and mother of the girl that I kept company with was re-baptized into the Church of Latter-day Saints. The son and the daughter of father Davies and also myself were baptized on the 10th of January 1852 into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by Abednego Jones. The names of the family of Father Davies is: Henry, the father, Martha the mother, Mariah, the daughter and William the son. The next day was Sunday. We went to meeting and we were confirmed by the Elders. Next Sunday the 18th, I went to meeting and I was ordained a Priest in this meeting and was sent out with two of the Elders to bear testimony to the people. I traveled a good deal with the Elders to help them with the singing and to bear testimony. I know that the preaching and singing of the Latter-day Saints has an influence that the world does not have. I know that this is true. My girl and myself used to go on excursions to the sea shore in a steamer and sometimes in a boat to the sea shore. England and Wales were great countries for enjoyments when I was there. Excuse me for saying so much about my girl. I can't help it for she was a good company to me.I Was Made GladIt was in Wales my native landThat I obeyed the Lord's commandAnd when I heard the Elders preachI knew twas truth that they did teachI was glad in the days of my youthTo hear the principles of truthThe same truths the Savior unfoldTo the Jews and the nations of oldAnd when I first heard them proclaimThat the Gospel of truth once againHas come to the earth to restoreThe gifts of the gospel once moreNo says the priest, we know the wayAnd we shall not lead you astrayBut will show you the right roadAnd also the ways of the LordI know that they have gone astrayAnd they will not retres [retrace?] their wayI know that they have not the planTo teach and save poor fallen manThat was a great and glorious dayWhen Joseph Smith the unlearned boyRevealed the plan to save all menThen let us praise the Lord, Amen.- J. J. DaviesNow I will write a few words about the wedding. It was on the 3rd of October 1853 that I got married to Mariah Davies, the daughter of Henry and Martha Davies. This was in Carmarthen City, South Wales. There were a few of the prominent Elders invited to the wedding and we had a pleasant time. We had song, speeches, recitation, toasts and poetry composed for the occasion by the Elders of the Latter-day Saints.I stayed in Wales a few months after the wedding. Now comes the sorrowful time for us to leave our friends and relations behind us in our native land. We prepared every thing that we could think of for the journey.My Early DaysI often think of my youthful daysWhen roaming through the streets of WalesWith my comrades that were full of gleeAnd very seldom we disagreeThose days went fast, the years rolled onuntil I was nearly twenty-oneThen I thought it was time for meto stop my roaming and foolish gleeSo I turned my thoughts to greater worthAnd then I found the precious truthThen I obeyed the laws of heavenThe plan our Savior to us givenAnd now my friends I have something newThe truth of which I'll reveal to youI've searched and searched but never did seeYes only one that suited meThis maid I loved I thought would beA comfort and a joy to meAnd truly I must say 'twas soFor she was kind and loving tooAnd now the time at last has comeTo be united both as oneAnd now once more the truth I'll tellThat I was suited extra well. - DaviesNow we are going to start on that great journey across that great and mighty sea. We got to Liverpool on the 2nd of February 1854. My father and mother-in-law and myself and wife started to the valleys of the mountains on the 4th of February in the ship Colcondah, a sailing vessel. There were 464 saints on board. The ship was taken out to the open sea by a steamer and then we were left on sea to the mercy of God. There was one thing that gave us joy and satisfaction. We knew that God was with us to protect us on the sea. We had a good captain to guide the ship and in a short time after the steamer left us, the ship was in full sail and she looked handsome. We had a good breeze and she ploughed the main very fast. It was very cold when we left Liverpool and in a few days we got to a warmer climate and we were comfortable on deck. It was a sight to us to see ships a-sailing on the sea. We had a brass band on board. I was one of them. All of us were Welsh boys. There also was a choir and I was one of them, also a string band. They played for dances and we had dances on sea. There were a few Elders on board returning from their mission. We had a few bachelors on board, they having a place by themselves. They called it Bachelors Hall. They made lots of fun of us on sea. The captain was very kind to us, especially to the sick, but very little sickness we had on sea, and only one death. That was an infant and indeed it was a solemn time when the child was dropped into the sea. We enjoyed ourselves very well while traveling on the sea. Our president was Elder Curtis. He was returning from his mission. We had meetings every Sunday. Brother Curtis organized us and appointed teachers to look after us. We had a good voyage and had but one storm. It was a fearful one and I shall never forget it. It lasted about 4 hours. I was on deck to see it. All the waves looked to be as big as mountains. The sailors got all the sails fastened before the storm was very bad. The thunder and lightning was terrible and the rain a-pouring down, but the ship did well. She sprang a leak, but it was soon stopped. The storm quit about dark. The next day the ship was in full sail again and we all felt to rejoice for fine weather once more. I can tell you my friends that we felt to rejoice.I Will Never ForgetI shall never forget that dayThe time for me to go awayAnd leave my mother and brothers threeTo go across the mighty seaTwas in the morning at eight o'clockThe ship Colcondah, left the dockThen the captain gave his commandAnd took us safe to Zion's landAnd when we first stopt on the landIt did look good and also grandWe felt to say with one accordYes thanks, yes thanks be to the Lord. - DaviesWe had the pleasure to see a wedding on sea. The bride was tied to a chair and hoisted up quite a ways up the riggings of the ship. The Captain said, "What a brave woman!" Then she took her handkerchief and waved it in the breeze. The bridesman was carried around the ship in a chair by four bachelors. They made it for that purpose. This took place on about the first of March 1854. We had a great deal of amusement on sea. When we got through the Gulf of Mexico, the captain said, "ship about." Then we traveled northeast until we got to that great river Mississippi. Here a steamer came to meet us and towed us up that mighty river. The water was very muddy. When we came to the quarantine station, we had to stop there for the doctors to examine us. When the doctors came on board, we passed them two by two. They pronounced us all well. We started again and got to New Orleans on the 18th of March 1854. We made the trip in six weeks from Liverpool to this place. We stayed in New Orleans a few days to get ready to travel up the river again. It is about one hundred miles from the mouth of the Mississippi to New Orleans and we were glad to get there. About the last of March, we started for St. Louis in a small steam boat. Yes, indeed, we were crowded in that little boat.We Were CrowdedNow we are traveling up the riverCrowded in that little steamerBut still we felt to ask the LordFor to protect us all on board.- the old man DaviesNow we are going yes faster and faster.The steam boat a puffing and snorting and pushing her against the stream, but oh what dirty water for us to use. We dip it up for the settle it, but it does not get much better. Never mind, we will do the best we can with it. I must drink it anyhow because I am very thirsty.And what a rackety noise! It makes me shudder.The captain a-shouting and the water a-splashingAnd the band a-playing and some of us a-singingAnd some of the sisters a-washing and the babes a-cryingAnd the sailors a-talking and some of them a-smokingAnd all of us trying to do somethingAnd the boat a-tugging and snorting.When traveling up the Missouri, also the Mississippi, I will say that it was a great sight for us to see such forests of timber and land. And what a wonderful stream this is going in such a force, taking down some very large logs. They sometimes strike the boat with tremendous blows, but we got through all right all the same. We got to St. Louis about the 10th of April 1854. We were glad to get there, but what a dirty looking place this is to be sure. When we got on shore, we had a great and a sad sight to see the Negroes working rolling the cotton bales. The boss that was looking after them used them very rough. Sometimes he would give them a hard lick with the whip he had. I thought that was bad to treat human beings in that way. And here we are, crowded into an old hospital. It is the best place we can get. We stayed two weeks in St. Louis. Here the cholera started among us. We buried a few of the brethren and sisters in this place. In a few days the word was to get ready to start up the river again, and we were glad of the chance. The distance from New Orleans to St. Louis is about twelve hundred miles. We bid that place good by and we weren't sorry of it.The Gospel PlanAnd God in his mercy to this generationRevealed to the Prophet the plan of salvationThe very same plan the apostles of oldWas sent by the Savior to preach to the worldWhen Jesus our Savior was here among menHe taught the great plan of the gospel to themAnd told his disciples, "Go forth and proclaimthrough faith and baptism, salvation will come"And also he said, "Lay your hands upon themthat they may receive the promise that's given."For the spirit of God will show them the wayAnd also will guide them from going astrayThere's twelve apostles to be in the churchYes prophets and teachers to guide and to teachAnd all these officers and many moreWere all in the church in the days of yoreBut all of the Priests will say we don't needThe gifts of the gospel for they have all ceasedAnd this is the doctrine they've taught unto menBut the Saints don't believe such doctrine as themThe Latter-day Saints will not go astrayIf they will be faithful and also to prayThen let the Saints rejoice and to singFor Jesus our Savior shall be our King. - J. J. DaviesNow for another start again. We started from St. Louis on the 24th of April 1854. After we got started, the captain of the boat said "put on more steam" and away she goes. We had a good view of the country on both sides of the rivers. It was a great sight to us because most all of us were tradesmen from the work shop. That is the reason that so much traveling through this country was interesting to us. We had to stop a few times to bury the dead while going up the river. We got to Kansas, Missouri in the month of May. The distance from St. Louis to Kansas is about 4 hundred miles. This was a trading post in those days, one or two stores and a few houses. After we got on shore, we camped close to the river. The cholera was very bad amongst us by this time. In a few days we moved from here to Wm. Magee's plantation. Now we had a good place to camp in. We buried quite a few of our brethren and sisters in this place. It was here I buried my father- and mother-in-law. We stayed in these camps six weeks. We went from here to West Port and stayed here a few days to get ready to start on the plains. Now comes the labor and toil for a people that has no experience whatever. Yes, more than a thousand miles across these great plains and also those great mountains before we would get to the valleys of the mountains. Oh yes, we had a fine time to see the Negroes breaking the young steers for the company.Traveling Together To The West, Myself And WifeWe've traveled together in peace many yearsYes, over the Sea and also great riversAnd on our journey thus far we are blessedAnd God in His mercy our lives has preservedThe Cholera At KansasAnd that awful disease which all of us dreadWas raging in camp and many of us diedIt was here I buried my father and motherAnd truly twas awful to leave them both hereAnd those sorrowful days were terribly badBut the saints had faith in the promise of GodThen we faithfully asked for the plague to ceaseAnd God in His mercy then stopped the diseaseStarting On The PlainsThe first night we camped was on the Indian CreekAnd my wife that very night was taken sickAnd before the night was over,The wife gave birth to a daughter. - the old man DaviesNow For A Hard TripWe started on the plains on the first of July, 1854. We traveled along the best we knew how for many a day. Now I will relate a few things that happened to us on the plains between West Port and Laramie. The first night we camped, it was at Indian Creek. Between twelve and one o'clock in the night, my wife gave birth to a daughter in a tent. At eight o'clock in the morning, we rolled out again. We traveled 25 miles and camped for the night.Now I will tell you about the circus that we had the first few days on the plains. Our captain told us in the evening to get up early in the morning for to get ready to start in good time after breakfast was over. We got the cattle together and tried to yoke them up. I can assure you that this was quite a task for us, and after we got them hitched to the wagon, we started out. Now comes the circus, and it was a good one. The Captain was a-watching us and telling us what to do. He told us to take a whip and use it and say "Woo ah duke, gee brandy," and so on. Now the fun commenced, then we went after them pretty lively. When the cattle went "gee" too much, we would run to the off side and yell at them "woo ah," and bunting them with the whip stock. Then they would go too much "ha" and we were puffing and sweating, and if you were there to look on, you would say that it was a great circus. This was a great experience and a tough one. By the time we got half way across the plains, we could drive an ox team as well as you can any day. There were ten persons to every wagon. There were 6  men in my wagon, three of them left me at Fort Kearney and two sick in the wagon and one died on the road. We buried him next morning. I had to drive the team alone all the way to the valleys. I had a big red boil under my right arm which gave me great pain. We had plenty of grass and water, but very little wood on the plains. The women gathered buffalo chips to make a fire to cook by to give us something to eat. We traveled a few days more and got to Ash Hollow, which is 150 miles from Fort Kearney, and Fort Kearney is between 2 or 3 hundred miles from the Missouri River. When we were on the Ash Hollow hill, the wagon wheel went over a boy's head, and came very near losing his life. The Elders administered to him and he got better. His name is Jonathan Prothro. We had to lock both wheels to go down this hill. We camped for the night on the bottom of the Platte River. Next morning we were off again and after I got out a ways from this place, the wagon wheel went over my foot. I took some oil and anointed my foot and in a short time, it was all right.In Memory Of Our DrivingIndeed we had very tough timesThe first few days we drove our teamsThe Captain, he would laugh sometimesAt us driving, yes on the plains. - JohnIn camp after supper we would sing and chat. At nine o'clock we had prayers, then we'd go to rest. There were fifty wagons in the train. We had besides the Captain of the train, five more were chosen, one for every ten wagons, to tell us what we had to do. One day when traveling on the road we had a stampede. The teams started out on the run and they tangled up fast together. It was a wonder that no one was killed and nothing broke. Then we parted them and hitched them up again and traveled a few miles and camped for the night. We had another one [stampede], but this one was in the night while they were in the corral. The captain was afraid of Indians that night. We made a corral with the wagons every evening. The cattle that night bunted the wagons pretty lively and the captain shouted to the guard to let them go and they went out on the run. Next morning after breakfast we got them together, some were 15 miles away. We traveled a few miles that day. Next morning we rolled out again. When looking towards the West we could see the Chimney Rock. We thought we would get to it that day but it took us 2 or 3 days. Indeed it does look like a chimney. My wife had a gathered breast. She was sick for a long time. I got the Elders to administer to her and she received the blessing and got well. The buffalo on the plains in those days were by the tens of thousands. The boys wounded a young bull and he came a-snorting and crossed the road between the wagons, but the boys downed him and fetched one quarter to camp.Now I will write a few words that I read in McCarlton's book, The Wonderland of the Wild West, which is very appropriate right here. "The untraveled tourist will feast his vision on those vast prairies or plains day after day until we reach the foot hills of the rocky mountains. We passed over these illimitable plains until the brain reels and the eye is tired of looking upon the vast expanse".The Great PlainsAnd what a wonderful countryIs this great western prairieWhere Indians and buffalo roamsWithout fear all over the plains.    - J.J.D.The night before we came to Laramie, we camped a few miles from the fort. This fort is located on the south side of the North Platte at the foot of the Black Hills, it being 550 miles west of the Missouri River. In the morning we rolled out towards the fort and in a short time after we started, we passed a large camp of Souix Indians. We passed the fort and camped by the Platte River for Noon. The Danish train that was behind us came along the same day. The Indians killed one of their cows. The Danish captain told the military captain about it, then the captain of the fort sent some of his men to see the Indians about it. They got to a dispute and the soldiers fired at them. The Indians killed some of the soldiers and burned the fort. The Danish captain came along to our camp and said that the Indians were on the war path. The trappers also were coming towards us for dear life. We all crossed the river all right. We had a large camp that night and we thought we would have to fight, but the Indians had their revenge. We camped together for a few nights, then we separated. I believed that the Lord over-ruled it for our good. We did not see any more Indians until we came to Salt Lake City.The Glorious PlanAnd when I think of the glorious planGod had revealed unto fallen manIt gives me joy within my mindTo think that God had been so kindAnd the gospel plan will save the worldIf they will obey the laws of GodAnd also those that're now in prisonFor they must hear the laws of HeavenOur Savior went there to unlock the doorAlso did preach to them that were thereJoseph and Brigham and Heber as wellThey have gone there the glad tidings to tellAnd our ancestors and friends are thereLooking to us their way to prepareThen let us go and work for the deadThis we can do in the temples of GodAnd this will be, yes, a glorious timeWhen friends and relations will meet againAnd when they do meet how happy they'll beIn peace and love through all Eternity.- J. J. Davies Now we are in the Black Hills and in a few days travel we got to the Red Butte. We jog along again and got to the Willow Spring and the next place was the Coyote Spring. From here to Independence Rock is ten miles. Here we struck the Sweet Water. The next place was the Devil's Gate. The next place was the Rocky Ridge, this ridge is the back bone of the Rocky Mountains. The streams run from here in all directions. Here where the South Pass is we are still a-going, yes, up and down through the hills until we reach Little Sandy. The next place was the Big Sandy. Right here is where Lot Smith burned the wagons with supplies for that great American army led by General Johnston. They were sent by the government to punish the Latter-day Saints for something that was not true. Six miles further west we struck the Green River. The next place we came to was Fort Bridger and in this old fort that army spent the winter of 1857. They stayed there because they were obliged to. The distance from this fort to Salt Lake City is one hundred and 13 miles. We bid good-by to the fort and traveled along the best we could until we got through the Emigration Canyon, then we could see the valleys of the mountains which made us to rejoice and to thank the Lord for his blessing to us on the journey.We got to the city of the saints a few days after the October conference of 1854. We rolled through the city with joyful hearts and camped on the emigration square, west of the Temple block. We all felt to rejoice. Can you blame us for having a joyful heart? No, I do not think that you would. I know if you had to travel such a journey, you would feel to rejoice and to thank the Lord for the blessings that you did receive on such a journey - for I can say that the Lord did bless us on that great journey.In Memory of the JourneyAnd when we left our Native landTo go west to the promised landWe felt so bad to leave behindThe dearest friends that were so kind.I know that we were glad to seeThe waters of the inland seaAnd the great city of the westWhere the pilgrims shall have a rest.- John J. Davies.My wife's cousin Elizabeth and her husband Rees J. Williams came to see us in camp [Emigration Camp] and we had a good chat together. He said to us, "I want you to come and stay awhile with us." We stayed with them until Christmas time was over. After I rested a few days, I started to work on the new road from the city west to the Jordan Bridge. After this job was done, I worked on the public works. I helped build the Endowment House and also the foundation of that great temple. When I was working here, I had a terrible blow. One of the large blocks of rock slipped down to the foundation and struck one of the levers and it came in such a force and struck me on the side of my head, senseless to the ground. The brethren administered to me and I got better. The superintendent of the work was Brother Daniel H. Wells.Now I will say a word about the fight. It was in the winter of 1854 on Christmas morning between the Mormon boys and Colonel Steptoa's soldiers. I was right there at the time. It was getting quite rough before they quit. President Young sent Brother Orson Hyde to stop it and it was lucky that it was stopped because it was getting quite rough. The boys did as they were told and peace was restored. The work on the public works stopped at Christmas time. Then I worked at my trade to Sister McKeny in the Eleventh Ward. I worked for her until April Conference in 1855. Sister McKeny and myself and wife went to meeting held in the Tabernacle on Sunday in a carriage. This was a great honor to us. I wove that winter five hundred yards of carpet for the use of the tabernacle. After the April Conference was over, I went to North Ogden to live. The first Sunday I was here, the Bishop, Brother Thomas Dun, set me apart to lead the singing and to organize a singing class, and so I did. Before I left North Ogden we had a good choir.Now I will say a few words about the grasshopper war. They destroyed nearly all the crops in the northern settlements and breadstuff was very scarce. Many had to dig roots to sustain life. I had to do that myself. I went to the field to water my corn one day and I got very weak and started for home. When I got to the door of the house I met my little daughter Martha and she asked for some bread and butter. There was no bread in the house. This was a trying time, you bet. I took a sack and started out and said, "I'll have some flour before I'll come back." I went to mother Marler. All she had in the house was twenty pounds of flour and one loaf of bread. She gave me half of what she had in the house. When I got home my wife smiled. Then we had a good breakfast. I wove one hundred yards of cloth for her son-in-law, Brother Baily Lake. He paid me in flour. Then I had flour to do me until fall. He was killed by the Indians on his way home from his Salmon River Mission. This was in the Spring of 1858.When I started to America in the year 1854, I left my mother in Wales. In the month of October 1856, two years after I left Wales, my mother died. This, my friends, was indeed sorrowful news to me.A Few Lines to Her MemoryIt was a task to me that dayTo give my mother the last good-byeShe reached her hand and I did mineOh what a feeling I had that time.- her son JohnNow I will say a word or two about that great feast we had after the famine. It was on the 24th of July 1856. We had bread made from the wheat that grew this year. And we had all kinds of vegetables that grew this year and I can say, my friends, that this was a feast in reality. We enjoyed ourselves well and a more jovial crowd you've never seen. The winter of 1856 & '57 was exceedingly severe in Utah. Snow fell to the depth of eight feet at various places in the valleys. I will never forget that winter. The snow was six feet deep in North Ogden.The great move to the south from the North in the beginning of 1857 - Judge W. W. Drummond having returned to the state, raised a great excitement by representing that the people of Utah were in open rebellion against the Government. On the 24th of July, Brother J. L. Stoddard arrived from Independence, Missouri without the Mail for Utah. He also brought the news that General Harney with a force of two or three thousand soldiers was sent to Utah to suppress the Mormons. As the army approached, about 1,500 of the territorial militia was sent to check their progress on the road. Some successful raids were made on teams and cattle herds, without shedding of blood. The army concluded to winter at Fort Bridger, 115 miles from Salt Lake City.The TruthAwake ye nations of the earthAnd listen to the words of truthThe time will come when you will sayThe men of God have gone away2I know that time will surely comeWhen God will call the Elders homeThe people then will mourn and sayWhy didn't God's servants with us stay3Because you did not listen toThose Elders that were sent to youFor they did preach the plan that's givenBy the great God that dwells in heaven4These Elders were despised by menWhen preaching words of truth to themAnd now a change had come at lastFor prejudice is dying fast.- J. J. DaviesEarly in the spring of 1858 President Young told the Latter-day Saints that salvation of the Saints was in moving south and towards the latter part of March, the people began to evacuate Salt Lake City and the entire country north of Utah Valley. President Buchanan sent peace commissioners. They and the leaders of the Saints arrived at a peaceable treaty and the army entered Salt Lake City. They remained at Camp Floyd until the autumn of 1861. It returned to take part in the contest between the North and South, Camp Floyd was broken up. Instead of a curse to the people, the army was a great blessing to us in supplying many of our necessities at a very low rate. The prophet of God said that the Lord accepted the sacrifice of the people and he said that the Lord would bless them for it and I can bear my testimony that the Lord did bless us just as he said. I never forget seeing women and children as well as men who were destitute of teams pulling handcarts through the storm of snow. Indeed it was a sublime exhibition of faith of the Latter-day Saints and when traveling south the time of the move, the people had teams and wagons of all description. The best team to my fancy was three yokes of yearlings. Indeed they did look pretty. I went as far as Spanish Fork and stayed there one year and went back to my home in the north in the fall of 1859. We as a people were blessed after the move, although it was a great sacrifice for us.Their Just DueSome people, they think they know it allAnd others, they'll say know nothing at allBut this is not right for me and for youThen let us give all what is their just due.And here I will say to you and to meYes, let us be kind to all that we seeAnd also be true and do what is bestWhen we'll be happy and we shall be blest.-- The old man DaviesI bought a city lot in Spanish Fork when I was there, the time of the move, and made quite a sum of money off my garden truck that summer, sold to the peddlers. They took them to Camp Floyd. I worked in this camp in the fall. I did not have a team of my own the time of the move. I bought a yoke of cattle and a wagon and started back to my old home in the north in the fall of 1859. In the year of 1864 I left North Ogden to go to Kanarra, Iron County. We started on the 5th of November. We got to Salt Lake City and while we were there we had a snow storm. We went from there to Leigh [Lehi?] and stayed with my Uncle Thomas Davies two days. We started again and got to Spanish Fork and stayed with my nephew Albert Rees. We traveled a few days more and got to Wales, Sanpete County, on the last day of November and stayed for the winter with my brother in law Thomas Rees. Brother John Rees, the president of the place, said "I want you to learn the folks to sing and organize a class." So I went to work and they learned very fast and in a short time we had pretty good singing. Brother Orson Hyde, one of the Twelve Apostles, lived in Spring Town, Sanpete. He said, "I want you, Brother Davies to take your choir to visit the settlements of Sanpete and sing for them to cheer them up." The first place we went to was the city of Manti. We gave them a concert and a dance on New Year's night 1865. Brother James Davies and wife were with us here at this place. They were going back home to Kanarra. We did not visit all the settlements because I was taken sick.After the Latter-day Saints located in these mountains, they had peace for a few years and since then there has been many men that have tried their best to enact laws to persecute the Saints and to drive them from these mountains, but President Kimball said that they will never drive the Latter-day Saints from these mountains and I am foolish enough to believe it. I have the names of a few of them in these few lines.Uncle Sam and the MormonsYes Uncle Sam, he's trying his bestTo drive the Mormons from the WestI hope that we shall stand the testBrigham at the head[chorus]Sing, sing, let us singBrigham Young shall be our kingSing, sing, let us singSing, for the priesthood, sing.[2]Colface, he was in a fretWhen he was here in DeseretHe said the Mormons we'll upsetBrigham ain't the man[3]Yes, Cragin thought that he was wiseYes, Mormonism he despisedBut he with all others liesAbout the Mormon boys[4]Bill Collum also with the restSaid in Congress he knew bestWe'll rout the Mormons from the WestBrigham ain't the man[5]The editors, they've tried their bestTo publish lies on DeseretAnd some of them proclaimed "We'll fightBrigham at the head"[6]Sectarians, they do all they canTo stop the Savior's glorious planBut Mormonism yet goes onBrigham is the man[7]They say that we are awful setAway out here in DeseretBut we don't care and let them sweatBrigham is the man[8]Minister Foot I understandIs coming back to the Mormon landWith twenty thousand dollars on handTo civilize the Saints[9]Minister Foot must be a foolTo think the Mormons he can ruleAnd we don't want his gentile school.We can do without them.[10]The next comes in is Judge McKeenHe thought the Saints were very greenHe soon found out a different sceneBrigham is the man.[11]And Doctor Newman came to testPlural marriage in DeseretBur Orson Pratt made him to sweatOrson was the man[12]Prince Edmunds thought that he done wellHis proclamation he did tellHe must repent or go to hellBrigham is the man[13]Come faithful saints and be on handTo obey the Lord's commandThat we may go on hand in handBrigham is the man[14]My friends, the truth I must unfoldThat Brigham Young was called of GodAs Abraham in days of oldGod is at the Helm- composed in 1870 by John J. DaviesIt was in the spring of 1865 that the Sevier Valley was commenced to be settled, and my brother in law Thomas Rees and two of his boys and myself went to that valley to take up land. We took up land in Monroe, but the Indians drove me away and in the month of July 1865, a young man by the name of David Wilson and myself started from Monroe and crossed the Beaver Mountains to go to Kanarra. We had a very hard trip of it, only one yoke of cattle. We had three hills to climb up and in one place we had to leave everything at the bottom of the hill. We took the four wheels half way up the hill and took two on top, came back and took the other two on top and took the wagon bed apart and took it up a board at a time and everything we had along, we packed them on top. We suffered for water a great deal, also the cattle, and we were badly used up before we got to water. We got to a spring of water at sun down. The next day, we got to the Beaver road and we were glad to get there. We got to Kanarra on the 21st of July. This trail that we traveled on was made by that great explorer, William Fremont in 1853. Most all of his animals died by starvation and some of his men died. He was snowed in. He got to Parowan on the 7th of January, 1854, a settlement of the Saints which was settled by Brother George A. Smith and party in 1851 My brother in law, James Davies, lived in Kanarra. He took me to Pinto Creek to spend the 24th of July. On the 26th, we started back home. We got there on the 3rd of August. My wife was glad to see me because the Indians were hostile in those days. It was in this year the Black Hawk War commenced.  They stole hundreds of horses and cattle from Sanpete and Sevier Counties and many of the brethren were killed. This was one of the trials that the Latter-day Saints have seen in the valleys of the mountains.Poets of to dayThe poets of today make beautiful rhymesSome of their writings are truly sublimeAlso they give us some grand sentimentsAnd the poems they make, they are excellent.2How grand are the hymns that the poet makesThey gladden the hearts and the human raceAnd when they're sung in a religious meetingThe words and music to us are pleasing3Some men will say they are not so greatThe poems that they to us repeatIndeed those men do not appreciateThe wisdom that they to us relate4I take great pleasure in reading poetryAnd also to read some good historyThey give me comfort in my lonesome hoursEnlightens my mind and gives me pleasures5And now my friends I'll quit my nonsenseAnd leave the field to men of scienceBut I want you all to understandThat I've poor language at my command.- J. J. DaviesOn the first of November 1866, I left the Sevier county with one yoke of cattle and one cow and a wagon and started for Kanarra, Iron County. We traveled through a few settlements and got to Kanarra on the 25th. We stayed with my uncle's folks, William R. Davies and in the spring of 1867 the place was moved one mile south. It was moved by the orders of Brother Erastus Snow, one of the Twelve Apostles. I bought me a farm in this place with Brother Llewelling Harris. Here again I organized a choir and one in Harmony, a settlement eight miles from Kanarra.On the night of the 16th of May 1869, my wife was taken sick and at four o'clock in the morning. She gave birth to a daughter and at seven o'clock, she died. This was the most trying circumstance that ever came across me in my life. It is impossible for me to express my feelings I had at that time. I thought there was no more happiness for me any more on this earth, but there was one thing that gave me joy and satisfaction. I knew that she died in full faith in the Gospel of Jesus. She was a good woman and a kind wife and good mother. She embraced the Gospel the first time in 1846. She was a faithful Latter-day Saint and she died in peace in my arms. The babe was taken care of by Sister Ann Young and she was a good mother to the child. My wife was buried on the 18th of May. She was a mother of eight children. I buried two children at North Ogden. I did all I could for to provide for six children that were left with me. The oldest was fourteen years old. Her name is Martha Mariah and she did very well to help me with the children.In Memory of My Departed WifeHo what a feeling, I had just thenTo see that my dearest friend was goneAnd to think that I was here alonewith six children and myself to mourn2She was a good mother and a friendWho was ready to help and also kindYes, to all her children and to me.Ho what sorrowful time for us to see.- the old manIn the spring of 1873, the United Order commenced in Kanarra. The brethren and sisters were organized by Bishop Lorenzo W. Roundy and his counselors A. B. Griffin and J. H. Willis, sen. We worked faithfully all summer. A. B. Griffin was the superintendent of the farms and John J. Davies the superintendent of the gardens. In the fall it was discontinued, not because it wasn't right. No, I believe it will be established in the Church of Jesus Christ yet, because the revelation of the Prophet Joseph Smith will yet come to pass. In the month of October, I was sent to herd the sheep of the United Order on Kanarra Mountain. I took John H. my son with me. It is very pleasant to be on the mountains in the summer and fall, to breathe that pure air that floats in the air and to drink that pure water that flows from the living springs. While I was there these lines came to me:The Wolves on the MountainsThe wolves around were bad one night.They tried and tried with all their mightAnd in the morning before 'twas daythe wolves were hunting for their prey.And here they came, the sheep they foundAll lying quiet on the groundAnd then they thought to have a treatAnd tried to catch one for to eat.Then Johnny in the door did yellAnd I ran out through the corral.I found the sheep and went around.The wolves then had to leave the ground.I got the sheep, then quiet and stillClose to the house on the side hillThen to the house I steered my wayHere I found Johnny busy at play.- J. J. D.On the 25th of July 1870, I got married to Elizabeth Williams, a cousin to the wife that I have buried. In the spring of 1871 I was taken sick with a pain in my breast. I was sick for three weeks. On the 12th of May 1872, my wife gave birth to a son at 2 o'clock in the afternoon at Kanarra. In the latter part of August 1890, my wife was taken sick and she died on the 27th of September 1890 of quick consumption, once again a gloomy day for me. She had five children when she died, and six of mine by the first wife.In Memory of My Departed WifeAnd now once more my sorrow has comeAnd ho, how gloomy tis here at homeFor my wife has gone to her heavenly restTo mingle with friends and also the just.She has left five children of her ownAnd six of mine all here for to mourn.After a good mother and a friendAnd she's gone and left us here behind.- husband J. J. DaviesMy children are grown up and I am getting feeble, so I came to the conclusion to sell my place in Kanarra. I lived with my son, Henry, after I buried my wife, until the month of July 1891. In the month of January 1891, I was taken sick with the la grip. I was sick for a long time and got very weak. I thought by traveling a little I would gain more strength. On the 8th of July, I started from Kanarra and three of my sons went along with me to Cannonville. I had a few head of cattle to take with us. The first night we camped at Cedar City. We rolled next morning and got to Paragonah that night. Next morning we started again. We went up through Little Creek Canyon and to Bear Valley and camped for the night. This is a fine country to keep stock in summer. Now we are on the go again and got to Panguitch in the afternoon. This is a desolate looking place, but still there is a great deal of business going on in this place. We went a little further and camped at Perkins Springs for the night. We started again, and after traveling two miles, we got to Red Canyon. This is a fine looking canyon, nice looking trees and fine scenery. It is five miles long, gradually up hill. We got on top safe, now we are on the East Fork Mountain, a fine looking country it is. We camped for noon at the East Fork Bridge. We got some fish for dinner and after dinner we rolled again and came to the head of the Cannonville Canyon. That leads down to the valley of Cannonville. We got to my son John's place on the 12th of July. We found my son and family all well. The distance from Kanarra to Cannonville is 104 miles.The Great ProphetThe Prophet Joseph was a mighty manAnd God through him revealed the glorious planFor the Jews and Gentiles, yes, bond and freeThose grand principles of eternity.He was chosen in the Council of HeavenTo come forth in this last dispensationFor to receive and also to restoreThe gospel that was preached in days of yore.Indeed this prophet of the latter daysSuffered persecution in different ways.He was hunted and mobbed and put in prisonBut was protected by the God of Heaven.This great prophet was true and braveUntil he was laid down in the grave.He sealed his testimony with his bloodJust the same as the prophets did of old.- John J. DaviesAfter I came to Cannonville, I thought I would take a long rest, but the old saying is "there's no rest for the wicked". I guess I am one of them, be that as it may, and here comes traveling again. John H. and part of his family, my son David and myself started for Panguitch Lake on the 22nd of July. We got to the lake on the 23rd. This is a good place to spend the 24th. We had a pleasant time while we were there and on the 26th, we started back home. We got to Cannonville next day. On the 28th we had a very heavy rain storm and a big flood in the creek. Now for a trip to Escalante to see Brother Roundy's folks. My son David and myself started on the 30th of July, 1891. We stayed in Henryville that night with Brother Paterson Willis. We got to Escalante next day. The road was very bad. We found Brother Roundy and his family all well and they were glad to see us. This is a nice place and good shade trees. Now for a trip on the Escalante Mountain we started on the 26 of August. It took us two days to get to N. B. Roundy's ranch, and a good ranch it is, but a rough road to get there. We stayed there 7 days. We came back home on the first of September and all was well. The folks were kind to us. We enjoyed ourselves well while there. My son David stayed with them to work for Brother Roundy after I left. My son John came after me and took me back to his home on the 10th of September. I stayed with him this winter. The latter part of November I was taken sick with rheumatism and the folks had to help me a great deal. On the 17th of December, 1891, John, my son, started for a load of goods for W. J. Hendersen. He had a tough time before he came back. He froze one foot a little.My Testimony to All ConcernedI know that the Lord has revealed the planFor to save and exalt poor fallen manAnd also the gospel has been restored,And Joseph Smith was a prophet of God.Then let us be true and stand to our faith.Also be firm in defending the truthAnd always be ready when we are calledFor to help to spread the work of the Lord.Indeed I have seen many great thingsSince I have been with the Latter-day Saints.I've seen the sick restored to healthThrough the prayers and power of faith.- J. J. DaviesIn Memory of my Journey to Cannonville and the Different Settlements in Garfield County1It was in Eighteen hundred and Ninety OneThat I made up my mind to leave my home.So I left Kanarra, July the eighthWith very good outfit, to travel with.2We traveled through some very good countryAnd also did see some fine scenery.We traveled along and reached the last hillAnd ten miles more, we got to Cannonville.3We found my son and all his folks at homeAnd I was glad that the journey was doneFor I was tired and wanted a restFor traveling to me is hard at the best.4I went on a trip to EscalanteAnd stayed six weeks with N. B. Roundy.I was treated well while I was thereAnd spent some time away with pleasure.5I think the people here raise what they needAlso the roughness for their stock to feed.I can say that I felt free and happyWhile I was here in Escalante.6I have been to Henryville, once or twiceBut I cannot say that I like the place.But the people that live in this little townSeem to be satisfied with their location.7This place has a full organization.The one that presides is Brother Golden,And my old friends Brother Riges and P. WillisThey have been chosen to help govern the place.8Georgetown and Clifton are fine little places,Cannonville also, and this is the largest.Only one bishop and his two counselorsFor to direct them in their religious affairs.9I am thankful to my Heavenly FatherFor the health that I have had this winterAlso thankful to Laura and AnneFor all their kindness they've done to me.- J. J. DaviesThe Christmas holidays on Cannonville went off peaceable and we had a good time together. The winter so far has been very mild and very little snow yet. On the 17th of March 1892, the Relief Society had their anniversary. It was a fest to me. They had variety, singing, speeches and dialogs, and a dance in the evening. We had very good enjoyment, Sister Alvira Hendersen presiding. In the beginning of March 1892, my son John started to work on his new place, grubbing and plowing, and on the 22nd of this month, John J. Davies, his father, sowed the first lucerne in Poverty Flat. That's what they call it, but if John H. will keep working at it, he will make a good place of it, and I will say Amen to it. April the 17th, 1892 my son had his birthday dinner. He was born in 1860. There were 22 persons in the feast and had a good time together. On the 23rd of May, the canal of the East Fork Irrigation Company was finished, and the water came over the hill at 2 o'clock in the afternoon of the same day.Poverty FlatWe need not think, 'tis foolish to startFor to raise something on Poverty FlatFor there is good land inside of this coveWhere products and trees will flourish and grow.2John has been grubbing and clearing the landReady for planting the seed that's on hand.And here I will say, Have courage, my boy.The blessing will come to you by and by.3I know that there is a great deal to doAnd all of this labor will come upon you.I know that your wives will do for the bestTo help you along, that all may be blest.4And if you'll keep on and do all you can,I know that you'll raise, yes, plenty of corn.Yes, hay and the grain and have them on handFor all of these things will grow on this land.5Plant your tomatoes and also the beans.The cabbage is nice and also green peas.And potatoes, for they are good food.And all of these things will make you feel good.6And this is the way for you to proceedAnd try all you can to raise what you need.Now I will quit and hope you'll do wellTo raise all you need and some for to sell- The old man DaviesNow for a journey again towards my home in Kanarra. My son and myself started from Cannonville on the 9th of July 1892. We came across the mountains which was a great sight to me. We got to my son's ranch on the East Creek that evening. Next day we went on the East Fork to see the country and to get some fish. Next day we left the ranch and got to the Blue Fley Ranch. This is a good place to keep stock in the summer. Next was the Red Canyon and we went down it pretty lively. We camped for noon at Willisen place. We left this place at 2 o'clock. The next place was Achville. We got to the old saw mills on the Mammoth and camped for the night. John caught some fish and we had a fine supper. Next morning we started again and got to Duck Creek. This stream is a curiosity, it springs up in one place and travels three miles and sinks in the earth. The next place was Deer Creek and camp for noon and a few miles more landed us on the Navajo Lake. And a beautiful lake it is. Four miles further we got on the divide. Now we are traveling on the Cedar Mountain. This is a good looking country. It was very cold when traveling on these mountains. We got to Kanarra on the 13th of July 1892. We found my son Henry and family all well. The folks gave us a surprise party the night we got here. After resting a few days I went through the field to see the crops and everything looked good considering the lack of water, which is very scarce in Kanarra.In Memory of the MountainsHow beautiful it is on a fine summer dayTo travel o'er the mountains when all things look gay.The air is so refreshing, which makes us feel goodAnd when the meal time comes, we can relish our food2The trees on the mountains look grand as we pass byAnd every thing we see, looks pleasing to the eye.The meadows and the lakes, how beautiful they lookAnd also the pure water that flows in the brook.3And the different flowers smell good as we pass by.They are here by thousands and we see them every day.And here are the ranchers, making butter and cheeseAnd these are good to have in summer and winter days.- John J. Davies